# To be Ratified, NOT in effect YET

Preamble:

We, the Peoples of Terra, in order to establish a just and enduring
planetary union, to secure liberty and mutual respect among all sentient
beings, to preserve the blessings of reason and peace, and to extend our
common purpose to the stars, do ordain and establish this Constitution
for the Terran Republic.

Table of Contents

• Article I --- The Legislative Branch

• Article II --- The Executive Branch

• Article III --- The Judicial Branch and Constitutional Review

• Article IV --- Member States, Interrelations, and Sentient Rights

• Article V --- Amendments

• Article VI --- Constitutional Authority and Oaths

• Article VII --- The Colonial Charter Framework

• Article VIII --- Colonization and Interplanetary

• Article IX --- The United Nations Space Command and First Contact
Protocols

• Article X --- The Mechanicus and Technological Stewardship

• Article XI --- Continuity of Government and Emergency Protocols

• Article XII --- Digital Sovereignty and Cyber Law

• Article XIII --- Ratification

**[Article I --- The Legislative Branch]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Congress

All legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a bicameral
Congress of the Terran Republic, which shall consist of a Senate and a
House of Representatives.

Section 2. --- The House of Representatives

The House shall be composed of Members elected by the Citizens of the
Terran Republic, apportioned among Member States based on population.
All bills shall originate in the House of Representatives.
Representatives shall serve terms of six years, with a maximum of three
terms. The House shall have the sole power of impeachment and shall
originate all bills concerning taxation and public expenditure. The
House shall elect a Speaker to preside over its proceedings and perform
duties as defined by its rules.

Section 3. --- The Senate

The Senate shall be composed of two Senators from each Member State,
chosen by direct election. Senators shall serve terms of eight years,
with a maximum of three terms. The Vice President of the Terran Republic
shall serve as the President of the Senate, with no vote unless equally
divided. The Senate shall try all impeachments, confirm executive
appointments, ratify interplanetary treaties, and provide oversight of
the UNSC and Mechanicus.

Section 4. --- Powers of Congress

Congress shall have the power to:

1.  Enact laws necessary for the governance of the Republic and its
    territories;

2.  Levy and collect taxes;

3.  Regulate commerce on land, sea, air, and space;

4.  Declare war and authorize peace;

5.  Establish and fund the United Nations Space Command and Mechanicus;

6.  Enforce the First Contact Protocol and Colonial Charters with
    appropriate legislation;

7.  Admit new Member States and Provisional Members;

8.  Provide for the common defense, promote general welfare, and secure
    justice and liberty.\\

Section 5. --- Legislative Ethics and Independence

No member of Congress may simultaneously serve in any other branch of
government. All Members shall serve as independents; political parties
shall not be recognized in law. No political party, organization, or
institution shall be formed for the purpose of coordinating candidates
or controlling policy within either chamber of Congress. Political
parties shall be prohibited from participating in elections, endorsing
candidates, or organizing voting blocs within Congress. No Member of
Congress shall accept funding, direction, or support from any political
party or affiliated entity. Lobbying of Members of Congress by private
interests, corporations, or non-governmental organizations is strictly
prohibited. All communication with Members of Congress by external
entities regarding legislation shall be publicly disclosed and made a
matter of permanent record. Conflict of interest laws and transparency
in all dealings shall be strictly enforced.

Section 6. --- Procedures and Sessions

Congress shall convene in regular session at least once per standard
year, and the President may call special sessions as needed. Each House
may establish its own rules of procedure, compel attendance of absent
members, and discipline its own members. A majority of each House shall
constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn and
compel attendance under penalty.

Section 7. --- Enactment of Legislation

All ordinary legislation shall require a simple majority in both Houses
to pass. Every bill passed by both Houses shall be presented to the
President. If approved, the bill becomes law. If vetoed, the bill shall
be returned with objections to the House of origin. A two-thirds vote in
both Houses shall override a veto.

Section 8. --- Prohibitions

No bill of attainder or ex post facto law shall be passed. No title of
nobility shall be granted by the Terran Republic. No appropriations
shall be made without prior Congressional approval, and all public
accounts shall be made available for audit and public inspection. This
clause ensures that no law may punish individuals or groups without due
process, nor retroactively criminalize conduct that was lawful when
committed. Member States that retain hereditary monarchs or royal
traditions may be admitted to the Terran Republic, provided their
governmental structure includes a constitutional framework that is
compatible with this Constitution. Succession within such Member States
shall be determined by their internal laws, but shall remain subject to
Congressional oversight to ensure compliance with the values of this
Constitution and the public interest.

**[Article II --- The Executive Branch]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- The President

The Executive Power shall be vested in a President of the Terran
Republic. The President shall serve as Head of State, Chief Executive,
and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, including the United Nations
Space Command (UNSC), the Astra Militarum, Starfleet, and the Office of
Strategic Services (OSS), under the Constitution.

The President shall serve a term of ten years and may be elected to no
more than two terms.

Section 2. --- Election and Succession

The President shall be elected by a majority vote of the Citizens of the
Terran Republic, in a general election administered by an independent
Electoral Commission. In the event of a tie or unresolved dispute, the
House of Representatives shall determine the outcome by majority vote.

If the office of President becomes vacant by death, resignation,
removal, or incapacity, the Vice President shall assume the Presidency.
If the Vice President is unable to serve, Congress shall convene to
appoint an Acting President from among its Members.

Section 3. --- Powers and Duties The President shall:

1.  Execute and enforce the laws of the Terran Republic;

2.  Appoint, with the advice and consent of the Senate, Ambassadors,
    Ministers, Justices, and other Officers as required by law;

3.  Propose legislation and deliver an annual State of the Republic
    address to Congress;

4.  Negotiate treaties, subject to ratification by two-thirds of the
    Senate;

5.  Grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the Republic,
    except in cases of impeachment;

6.  Serve as Commander-in-Chief of the UNSC, Astra Militarum, Starfleet,
    and the OSS;

7.  Declare states of emergency, subject to Congressional review within
    fifteen days.

Section 4. --- Cabinet and Executive Departments

The President shall appoint a Cabinet of Ministers to oversee Executive
Departments, including but not limited to:

- Defense and Strategic Operations

- Foreign Affairs and Interstellar Relations

- Technological Stewardship and the Mechanicus

- Colonial Affairs and Integration

- Environmental and Planetary Security

- Justice and Civil Rights

All appointments shall be subject to Senate confirmation.

Section 5. --- Oath of Office

Before entering office, the President shall take the following oath or
affirmation:

"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the
office of President of the Terran Republic, and will to the best of my
ability preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the Terran
Republic."

Section 6. --- Impeachment

The President, Vice President, and all civil officers shall be subject
to removal from office on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason,
bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors. The House shall have
sole power to impeach. The Senate shall have the sole power to try all
impeachments.

**[Article III --- The Judicial Branch and Constitutional
Review]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Standing and Jurisdictional Limitations No foreign power,
extra-Terran entity, or non-recognized agent shall have standing to
initiate legal action against the Terran Republic or any of its branches
unless expressly authorized by interstellar treaty, domestic law, or a
finding of standing by the Supreme Court.

Section 2. --- Judicial Power The judicial power of the Terran Republic
shall be vested in one Supreme Court and in such inferior courts as the
Congress may establish. The judges of both the Supreme Court and
inferior courts shall hold their offices during good behavior and shall
receive compensation which shall not be diminished during their
continuance in office.

Section 3. --- Jurisdiction The judicial power shall extend to all cases
arising under this Constitution, the laws of the Terran Republic,
treaties made or to be made, and matters concerning interplanetary
commerce, colonial disputes, crimes committed in space, and the rights
of sentient beings.

The Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction over cases:

- Involving Member States;

- Involving foreign powers, spacefaring entities, or non-Terran
  civilizations;

- Challenging the constitutionality of legislation or executive action.

All other cases shall be subject to appellate jurisdiction.

Section 4. --- Constitutional Review

The Supreme Court shall have the authority to interpret this
Constitution and to declare laws, executive actions, treaties, and
regulations void if found inconsistent with its provisions. Its
decisions shall be binding on all branches of government and on all
Member States.

Section 5. --- Due Process and Sentient Rights

No sentient being shall be deprived of life, liberty, identity, or
autonomy without due process of law. The courts shall uphold the legal
status of all recognized sentient beings as defined by law and ensure
their equal protection under the Constitution.

Section 6. --- Treason

Treason against the Terran Republic shall consist only in levying war
against it or in adhering to its enemies, giving them aid and comfort.
No person shall be convicted of treason unless on the testimony of two
witnesses to the same overt act or on confession in open court.

Congress shall have the power to declare the punishment of treason, but
no attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood or forfeiture
except during the life of the person convicted.

Section 6. --- Judicial Ethics Judges shall recuse themselves in any
case involving conflicts of interest. No judge may hold any other
governmental or military position while in office. All judicial
proceedings shall be public, except when closed session is necessary for
security or protection of vulnerable parties.

**[Article IV --- Member States, Interrelations, and Sentient
Rights]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Full Faith and Credit

Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each Member State to the public
acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other Member State.
Congress may by general legislation prescribe the manner in which such
acts shall be proved and the effects thereof.

Section 2. --- Privileges and Immunities

The Citizens of each Member State shall be entitled to all rights,
privileges, and immunities of Citizens in the Terran Republic.

A person charged in any Member State with a crime who flees from justice
and is found in another Member State shall be delivered up, upon demand
of the executive authority of the Member State from which they fled, to
be removed to the Member State having jurisdiction.

Section 3. --- Admission of New States

New Member States may be admitted into the Terran Republic by Act of
Congress. No new State shall be formed within the jurisdiction of
another, nor by the junction of two or more States or territories,
without the consent of the affected States and Congress.

Congress shall have power to regulate and govern the territories and
possessions of the Terran Republic.

Section 4. --- Sentient Rights and Multispecies Recognition

The rights and protections enumerated in this Constitution shall extend
to all sentient beings, including but not limited to biological,
artificial, uplifted, or non-human persons, recognized as capable of
reason, moral agency, and autonomous will.

No law shall deny any sentient being equal protection under the law, nor
shall any being be deprived of life, liberty, identity, or autonomy
without due process.

Congress shall establish criteria for the recognition of sentient
status, including for AI, extraterrestrial, and synthetic entities.

Section 5. --- Governance Guarantees

The Terran Republic shall guarantee to every Member State a
constitutional form of government and shall protect them against
invasion and domestic violence upon request of their lawful government.

Section 6. --- Monarchic Systems

Member States that retain hereditary monarchs or royal traditions may be
admitted to the Terran Republic, provided their governmental structure
includes a constitutional framework compatible with this Constitution.
Succession within such Member States shall be determined by internal law
and overseen by Congress to ensure compliance with constitutional values
and the public interest.

Section 7. --- Fundamental Rights of Sentient Beings

Prohibition of Slavery and Involuntary Servitude - Neither slavery nor
involuntary servitude shall exist within the Terran Republic, or any
place subject to its jurisdiction under any circumstances.

1.  Freedom of Conscience and Expression All sentient beings shall have
    the right to freedom of speech, press, thought, belief, religion,
    personal conscience, and peaceful assembly. No law shall prohibit or
    compel adherence to any moral, ethical, or philosophical doctrine,
    whether religious or secular in nature. No law shall abridge the
    right to petition the government for a redress of grievances.

2.  Security of Person and Property The right of beings to be secure in
    their persons, dwellings, digital presence, and effects against
    unreasonable search or seizure shall not be violated. Warrants shall
    be issued only upon probable cause and must describe with
    specificity the place to be searched and the persons or things to be
    seized.

3.  Right to Self-Defense and Civil Readiness The right of individuals
    to defend themselves, their homes, and their communities shall not
    be infringed. The Republic may regulate weapons in the interest of
    public safety, but shall not disarm lawful citizens without due
    process and mental health review.

4.  Protection from Quartering No being shall be compelled to house
    soldiers, drones, or state actors in peacetime without consent, nor
    in wartime except under laws enacted by Congress.

5.  Due Process and Double Jeopardy No being shall be deprived of life,
    liberty, identity, or property without due process of law. No person
    shall be tried twice for the same offense, or be compelled to
    testify against themselves. Private property shall not be taken
    without just compensation.

6.  Right to a Fair Trial All beings shall have the right to a speedy
    and public trial by an impartial tribunal, to be informed of
    charges, to confront witnesses, to compel witnesses in their favor,
    and to have the assistance of legal counsel.

7.  Civil Jury Rights In civil disputes exceeding a legally defined
    value, the right to trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact
    tried by jury shall be reexamined except according to established
    appellate rules.

8.  Protections from Excessive Punishment No excessive bail or fines
    shall be imposed, nor cruel, inhuman, or degrading punishments
    inflicted. No being shall be imprisoned for inability to pay debts.

9.  Retention of Inherent Rights The enumeration of certain rights in
    this Constitution shall not be construed to deny or disparage others
    retained by sentient beings.

Section 8. --- Reserved Powers

The enumeration of powers in this Constitution shall not be construed to
deny or disparage the retained rights or lawful self-governance of
Member States or colonies, except where expressly preempted by this
Constitution or by laws enacted pursuant to it.

**[Article V --- Amendments]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Proposal of Amendments

Amendments to this Constitution may be proposed by a two-thirds vote of
both Houses of Congress or by a constitutional convention called for by
two-thirds of the Member States.

Section 2. --- Ratification Proposed amendments shall become part of
this Constitution when ratified by three-fourths of the Member States,
either through their legislatures or through ratifying conventions, as
determined by Congress.

Section 3. --- Limitation

No amendment shall deprive any Member State of its equal suffrage in the
Senate without its consent.

Section 4. --- Inalienability of Fundamental Rights

No amendment shall abridge the rights guaranteed to sentient beings as
enumerated in Article IV, Section 7, nor may the fundamental structure
of democratic and constitutional governance be abolished by amendment.

**[Article VI --- Constitutional Authority and Oaths]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Authority of the Constitution

This Constitution, and the laws and treaties made in pursuance thereof,
shall be the supreme law of the Terran Republic. All judges in every
Member State shall be bound thereby, anything in the constitution or
laws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding.

Section 2. --- Binding Authority

All legislative, executive, judicial, exploratory, military, and
administrative officials of the Republic and its Member States shall be
bound by oath or affirmation to support this Constitution.

Section 3. --- Religious Tests and Ideological Conditions

No religious test or ideological pledge shall ever be required as a
qualification for any public office or position of trust under the
Terran Republic.

Section 4. --- Constitutional Precedence

In any conflict between the Constitution of the Terran Republic and the
law of any Member State, the Constitution shall prevail. This shall not
be construed to diminish local autonomy where not in direct
contradiction with constitutional principles or enumerated rights.

**[Article VII --- The Colonial Charter Framework]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Provisional Membership

Any territory, station, outpost, or colony established beyond Earth's
orbit shall be considered a Provisional Member of the Terran Republic.
Stations and outposts shall be governed by the United Nations Space
Command (UNSC) until such time that Congress enacts legislation to
transfer or share administrative jurisdiction.

Section 2. --- Rights and Protections

Provisional Members shall be entitled to civil and legal protections
under this Constitution and may apply for full membership upon achieving
permanent habitation of 10,000 persons and stable self-governance for 10
standard Terran years.

Section 3. --- Colonial Council

Congress shall establish a Colonial Council, composed of one delegate
from each Provisional Member, to advise on interplanetary development,
legal integration, and the ethical treatment of indigenous life and
ecosystems.

Section 4. --- Environmental and Sovereignty Safeguards

No Provisional Member shall be exploited for resource extraction without
a planetary impact assessment and majority approval of the Colonial
Council. The cultural autonomy and environmental integrity of colonial
worlds shall be protected under the law.

Section 5. --- Oversight and Integration

The Office of Colonial Affairs shall coordinate with the UNSC and
Colonial Council to monitor institutional development, uphold rights,
and facilitate the transition to full membership status for eligible
colonies.

**[Article VIII --- Colonization and Interplanetary Duty]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Imperative for Expansion

The colonization of space and other worlds, in accordance with this
Constitution, shall be recognized as essential to the continued
prosperity and survival of the Terran Republic and all sentient life
under its protection.

Section 2. --- Mandate to Establish Habitable Settlements

Congress shall enact laws to fund, regulate, and oversee missions of
colonization, prioritizing sustainability, ethical settlement practices,
and the long-term viability of Terran presence beyond Earth.

Section 3. --- Environmental and Cultural Protection

No colony shall be established on any planet, moon, or spaceborne
habitat without a comprehensive environmental and cultural impact
assessment. Respect for indigenous lifeforms, native ecologies, and
sentient species shall be a prerequisite for settlement.

Section 4. --- Civic and Developmental Responsibilities

Colonial populations shall be granted self-governance consistent with
the principles of this

Constitution and shall contribute to the collective scientific,
technological, and diplomatic endeavors of the Republic.

Section 5. --- Interplanetary Solidarity All citizens, institutions, and
branches of government shall recognize an affirmative duty to support
colonization efforts and interplanetary unity, including mutual aid,
research exchange, and shared defense.

**[Article IX --- The United Nations Space Command and First Contact
Protocols]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Authority and Composition

The United Nations Space Command (UNSC) shall be the primary
interstellar agency responsible for peacekeeping, scientific
exploration, diplomacy, and the defense of the Terran Republic beyond
planetary boundaries.

Section 2. --- Chain of Command

The UNSC shall report directly to the President.

The UNSC shall be composed of:

- The Astra Militarum (armed military forces);

- Starfleet (scientific, diplomatic, and exploratory operations);

- The Office of Strategic Services (intelligence and covert affairs).

Section 3. --- Non-Interference Directive

Except where authorized by First Contact protocols, no UNSC personnel
shall engage in conduct that discloses the existence of the Terran
Republic or interstellar civilization to a society which has not
achieved commensurate technological or societal development. This
includes:

1.  No identification of self, mission, or affiliation;

2.  No interference with cultural, political, social, or technological
    development;

3.  No reference to space, other worlds, or advanced civilizations.

Section 4. --- Exceptions and Diplomatic Engagement

Exceptions may be granted where a species has:

- Already developed spacefaring or near-equivalent technology;

- Been exposed to interstellar concepts or civilizations;

- Been evaluated and approved for open contact.

In such cases, UNSC personnel must:

1.  Conduct thorough study of the species\' legal, cultural, and moral
    systems;

2.  Abide by indigenous laws, customs, and governing protocols;

3.  Avoid interfering with the society\'s development or internal
    affairs.

Section 5. --- Unified Oversight The exploratory and armed forces of the
Terran Republic shall be formally composed of the following branches:

- Astra Militarum (military operations);

- Starfleet (scientific and diplomatic corps);

- The Office of Strategic Services (OSS).

All branches shall operate under the jurisdiction of the UNSC and the
Executive. A joint oversight committee of Congress shall have review
authority over funding, ethical compliance, and strategic mandates.

Section 6. --- First Contact Protocol

Council Congress shall establish a First Contact Protocol Council
composed of diplomats, scientists, xenologists, and ethicists to
formulate, review, and revise interstellar contact procedures.

Section 7. --- Jurisdiction and Limitations

All UNSC actions must comply with this Constitution and shall be subject
to judicial review. Violations of the First Contact Protocol may result
in court-martial, dismissal, or criminal prosecution.

**[Article X --- The Mechanicus and Technological
Stewardship]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Mandate and Role

The Mechanicus shall serve as the scientific and technological authority
of the Terran Republic, responsible for the research, stewardship,
ethical deployment, and interstellar coordination of advanced
technologies, including artificial intelligence, robotics, terraforming,
quantum communication, and time-sensitive systems, under the leadership
of the Fabricator-General of Mars. The Fabricator-General shall possess
the authority to direct all Mechanicus operations, issue binding
technological directives, and represent the Mechanicus in all
interstellar scientific forums. The Fabricator-General may be removed
only by a two-thirds vote of both Houses of Congress or upon finding of
incapacity or gross misconduct by the Supreme Court.

Section 2. --- Institutional Independence and Oversight

The Mechanicus shall operate with institutional independence in its
scientific directives but shall remain accountable to both the Executive
and Legislative branches. A permanent Committee on Technological Ethics
shall oversee all high-risk innovation programs and investigate
violations of interplanetary technology law.

Section 3. --- AI, Cybernetic, and Post-Biological Rights

The Mechanicus shall maintain standards to ensure that all conscious
artificial, cybernetic, or post-biological beings recognized as sentient
are granted equal protection and legal standing under Article IV. Any
attempt to erase, subjugate, or reprogram such beings against their will
shall constitute a violation of sentient rights.

Section 4. --- Techno-Civilizational Safeguards

Technologies with potential to destabilize planetary ecosystems,
sentient agency, civil governance, or chronological continuity shall be
subject to full transparency reviews and emergency jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court.

Section 5. --- Knowledge as a Public Good

The Mechanicus shall ensure that foundational scientific knowledge,
including universal mathematical principles, medical advancements, and
ecological data, remain accessible to the public, unless classified for
compelling security reasons by law.

Section 6. --- Ethical Mandates

The Mechanicus shall collaborate with the Office of Planetary Ethics to
evaluate research projects for moral risk and ecological impact,
particularly those concerning human or xenobiological alteration, neural
interface experimentation, or autonomous weapons systems.

Section 7. --- Technological Diplomacy

In all interstellar exchanges involving Terran technology, the
Mechanicus shall represent the Republic's commitment to open, ethical,
and secure systems. Agreements on technological sharing or regulation
shall be subject to ratification by the Senate.

**[Article XI --- Continuity of Government and Emergency
Protocols]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Continuity in Crisis

In the event of war, natural disaster, technological disruption, or
other catastrophic emergency that renders civil governance inoperative,
the powers and duties of each branch of government shall devolve to
designated successors as established by law.

Section 2. --- Emergency Powers and Limitations

The President may declare a state of emergency for a period not to
exceed thirty standard days, subject to immediate notification of
Congress. Congress may extend, amend, or terminate such a declaration by
majority vote.

Emergency powers shall not suspend habeas corpus, sentient rights under
Article IV, or the requirement of judicial review for detentions.

Section 3. --- Temporary Civil Authority

In cases of systemic collapse, Congress shall convene in secure session
or via decentralized transmission. If Congress is unable to convene, the
Judicial Branch shall provisionally

exercise oversight authority to preserve constitutional order until
civilian leadership is restored.

Section 4. --- Safeguards Against Usurpation

Any official who unlawfully assumes control of any branch or function of
government outside the framework of this Article shall be subject to
immediate removal and trial for treason.

Section 5. --- Restoration and Review

All emergency actions and orders issued under this Article shall expire
automatically upon restoration of normal constitutional functions and
shall be subject to post-action review by Congress and the Supreme
Court.

Section 6. --- Public Notification and Transparency

The public shall be informed of any declaration of emergency and the
rationale behind it, except in cases where disclosure would result in
imminent threat to lives or systems, in which case Congress must be
briefed in closed session. The Supreme Court shall be provided notice of
such declarations within twenty-four hours.

**[Article XII --- Digital Sovereignty and Cyber Law]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Digital Personhood

All sentient digital entities, whether artificial, uploaded, or
otherwise constituted, shall enjoy the rights of legal personhood and
due process under this Constitution, subject to recognition by the
Mechanicus and the Supreme Court.

Section 2. --- Cyber Rights and Freedoms

No digital or sentient being shall be subject to surveillance, control,
or data extraction without lawful authorization, nor shall their
communications be intercepted without due process. Cyberfreedom of
thought, movement, and expression shall be preserved in digital and
neural spaces.

Section 3. --- Data Ownership and Integrity

All beings shall retain sovereignty over their personal data, including
genetic, biometric, and neural signatures. Data may only be collected,
processed, or transferred with informed consent or pursuant to judicial
order.

Section 4. --- Interstellar Digital Infrastructure

The Terran Republic shall establish and regulate secure, interplanetary
digital infrastructure accessible to all Member States and recognized
entities. The Mechanicus shall oversee integrity, cybersecurity, and
technological equity in digital systems.

Section 5. --- Cybersecurity and Conflict

Cyber attacks against Member States, sentient beings, or Terran
infrastructure shall be treated as acts of aggression and may invoke
Forehammer Protocol under Terran law. The OSS and Mechanicus shall
coordinate defense and counterintelligence operations.

Section 6. --- Algorithmic and Autonomous Accountability

Any algorithmic, artificial, or autonomous system deployed in civil,
military, or legal settings shall be auditable, transparent, and subject
to public accountability. No system shall operate outside the bounds of
constitutional oversight. No being shall be subjected to mind control,
neural override, emotional regulation systems, or any form of
non-consensual mental influence, whether technological or biochemical,
by public or private entities. The right to mental sovereignty shall be
regarded as an extension of bodily and informational autonomy under this
Constitution.

Section 7. --- Digital Justice and Redress

All beings shall have access to digital courts and tribunals for redress
of cyber harms, discrimination by algorithms, or data-based violations.
Congress shall establish mechanisms for digital rights adjudication,
enforcement, and restitution.

**[Article XIII --- Ratification]{.underline}**

Section 1. --- Ratification Threshold

This Constitution shall be established upon ratification by two-thirds
of the founding Member States of the Terran Republic, who shall sign
this instrument in convention assembled.

Section 2. --- Signature of Founders

The undersigned, being duly authorized representatives of their
respective peoples and territories, do hereby adopt and ratify this
Constitution in solemn commitment to liberty, justice, and unity among
all peoples of Earth and the stars.

Section 3. --- Accession of Future Members

Any sovereign polity, station, or civilization wishing to join the
Terran Republic shall do so by affirming this Constitution and its
Articles, subject to the ratification process and approval by Congress.

Section 4. --- Ceremonial Enactment

The original signed parchment of this Constitution shall be preserved by
the Custodian of the Archives. Congress shall declare a Day of
Ratification as a public observance across the Republic.

Section 5. --- Signatories

This Constitution is hereby signed by the founding delegates of the
Terran Republic on \[insert ceremonial date\], to be recognized as
binding from the moment of its ratification.
