**The philosopher\'s stone Part-4 (The recipe)**

Via Sicca with Antimony The alchemical text Coelum Philosophorum (The
Heaven of the Philosophers), by the German alchemist Phillipus Ulstadius
around 1536, presents detailed instructions for working with many
mineral and metallic substances. Be careful not to confuse this text
with a work by Paracelsus with the same name. Ulstadius sheds a great
deal of light on the subject of antimony and particularly the use of
antimony regulus. By far the greatest interest surrounding the regulus
is its fixed spirit or Mercury, which can be transferred to other metals
in order to reanimate them and awaken their generative power. This path
leads to confecting the Philosopher's Stone and is referred to as Via
Sicca or the Dry Way with antimony. With some operative variations, this
is the path of Flamel, Philalethes and Newton. It is said to be one of
the fastest and most reliable ways to make the Stone of the Wise, but
filled with many dangers.

To begin, stibnite must be purified by the liquation process as
described above. The purified stibnite is powdered and dried, then mixed
with an equal amount of fluxing powder consisting of 2 parts salt of
tartar and 1 part niter. Grind these together carefully and dry. Next, a
crucible is heated red hot and the dry powder mixture is slowly added
spoonful by spoonful with a cover placed on top with each new addition.
A scoria will form at the top and regulus will fall to the bottom of the
crucible. Pour the melt into a hot cone-shaped iron mold and tap the
sides to help the regulus fall to the bottom. Once cool, the regulus can
be separated from the scoria easily by a hammer blow. Save the scoria
aside; it contains the "seed of gold".

To purify the regulus, it is melted in a clean crucible and niter is
sprinkled on top to form a thin molten layer. Keep this in flux for
about 15 minutes, then pour it again into the iron cone. Repeat this
purification two more times at least. The next step is to form the
Martial Regulus. The recommended proportions are 1 part regulus to
1/10th part iron or steel nails. Iron is said to have a volatile
magnetic quality and steel, a fixed magnetic quality. Steel is preferred
here, but not stainless steel. Heat the nails red hot in a crucible,
then slowly add the regulus as a powder. Keep in flux for 15 minutes,
then pour into the iron cone which has been preheated. When cool, break
the regulus away from the remaining undissolved nails. Purify the
regulus as described above until you see the starry crystal surface. Now
melt your "Stellate Martial Regulus" in a clean crucible and slowly add
pure silver metal filings until they stop melting, signaling it is
saturated. This is now a Lunar Martial Regulus. This is sufficient if
you plan to make the White Stone which can transmute metals to silver.
If you wish to make the Red Stone which transmutes metals to gold, you
will need to add a small amount of copper.

Melt the Lunar Martial Regulus and slowly add pure copper metal powder
until it refuses to melt anymore. It won't take very much. Cast the
metal out and you will have a Lunar Venusian Martial Regulus with a
beautiful violet sheen. Save this regulus aside for the amalgamation
phase of the work. The Stone of the Philosophers is nothing more than a
subtilized, exalted and seminal gold. Mercury is the agent which
penetrates and effects such a subtilization and exaltation. But it must
be prepared first for use in this Art. Coelum Philosophorum Before we
can use the prepared Lunar Venusian Regulus to "animate" metallic
mercury, we need to purify mercury with some of the Martial Regulus.
Ideally we should use a very pure Native Cinnabar for this process, but
if that is not available, we can use high purity metallic mercury
(triple distilled) from the chemical supply store. It is a good idea to
purify it in the old ways prior to use. It's not so much aimed at
getting the mercury any more pure as at exalting it alchemically,
opening the body to receive new life. For this, take your mercury and
wash it well with rainwater, then squeeze it through a piece of chamois
or other thin pliable leather.

Now cover the mercury with dried and powdered sea salt. Mix these two
completely using a mortar and pestle. Depending on the impurities in the
mercury, the salt will darken even to blackness. Wash this dirty salt
out using rainwater and repeat the salt washing once or twice. The
mercury will retain some of the subtle essence of the salt which is
important for the rest of the processes.

Put the mercury into a mortar and add an equal amount of sea salt.
Saturate this mixture with strong distilled vinegar (about 10% acetic
acid) and begin vigorously mixing the mass for about 10 minutes. Now
wash this salt out with rainwater until the mercury appears shiny and
bright. Press it through a chamois; there should be no residue left in
the chamois. The mercury should leave no trail when rolled across a
smooth surface and should be without any appearance of scum at the
surface. Mix the mercury with an equal amount of native sulfur in a
mortar, grinding it together well. The matter will turn black during
this process, forming mercury sulfide. Examine the matter closely with a
magnifier. There should be no tiny globules of mercury remaining. Grind
with additional sulfur if there are. The resulting black mass is a crude
form of cinnabar, which is the sulfide ore of mercury. We can proceed
with the black variety of cinnabar or we can improve this matter by
sublimation to obtain the beautiful orange variety of cinnabar which is
best. This is a difficult and dangerous process which requires careful
control of the heating.

Now mix 1 part of the cinnabar with one part of powdered martial regulus
and grind them together very well in a mortar.

Place the powder into a strong glass retort with the distilling arm
immersed in a container of water. Begin the distillation slowly at
first, and then gradually raise the heat until metallic mercury distills
over. The temperature will be about 320 to 380 deg C as the mercury
distills. When the distillation is complete, remove the receiver first,
before removing the heat, or the cooling retort may draw the water into
itself and explode.

The black residue remaining in the retort is mostly antimony sulfide
which can be used to make more of the Martial Regulus.

The mercury which distilled over is ground together with Native Sulfur
until a homogeneous black powder of cinnabar is formed. Again, it is
best to sublimate this black form of cinnabar into the red orange
variety, but either form will work.

The process of mixing the cinnabar with Martial Regulus and distilling
is repeated at least three times. The metallic mercury from the final
distillation is now purified and prepared for the amalgamation phase.
Take 1 part of the Lunar Martial Regulus for the White Work for
conversion to silver , or 1 part of the Lunar Venusian Martial Regulus
for the Red Work for convertion to Gold, as prepared earlier. Powder the
regulus and add 4 parts of the purified mercury in small increments,
grinding the matter very well in an iron mortar with each addition.
Continue grinding the mass for 10 to 20 hours total. At the end of this
grinding, add rainwater and continue to grind until the water is black.
Pour out this dirty water and add fresh rainwater. Continue this water
wash until all of the blackness is out and the resulting amalgam appears
bright and clean. Now place the amalgam into a strong retort as above or
into a distilling flask set up as shown below. The oven should be able
to reach about 400 deg C. The bulb in the distilling arm prevents water
from being drawn into the hot flask if there is a sudden pressure
change. The receiver is partially filled with water to condense the
mercury vapor distilling over.

Distill the amalgam and collect the mercury from the receiver. Wash the
mercury several times with water and then dry it with a paper towel.
Remove the black silver and regulus residue from the distillation flask
and weigh it, then grind it to powder. Melt half its weight of fresh
regulus in a crucible, then slowly add the powder until it melts. Cast
out the melt and powder it.

Use the distilled mercury to form the amalgam again with this fresh
regulus as you did above. Now repeat the distillation.

The amalgamation and distillation process is repeated 7 to 10 times and
is often referred to as "letting the eagles fly". The regulus of
antimony won't amalgamate very easily with mercury metal, so the silver
is added to absorb the fixed spirit of antimony and transfer it to the
mercury. The silver, then often called the "Doves of Diana", acts as a
medium to transfer the life force of the antimony into the mercury.
After the distillation, the residue of silver which remains in the
retort, called now the "Dead Doves of Diana", is cleaned and used again
each time with the addition of fresh regulus.

With each cycle of amalgamation and distillation, the mercury metal
becomes more enlivened and ultimately is called "Animated Mercury", or
"Sophic Mercury", containing the generative power of the metallic realm.

This is the "Philosophical Mercury" of the Dry Way. Thus common mercury
becomes reanimated by the fire of antimony and the principles of life
hidden in the iron and copper. It is the fertile field wherein the seed
of metals is sown. For the White Work, purified silver is "seeded" into
this animated mercury; for the Red Work, we use purified gold. The
purification of the precious metals begins with the preparation of sea
salt. The salt is fused in a crucible at about 800 deg C, then dissolved
in rainwater. Filter the solution into a distillation train and distill
out 2/3 of the water. Save this distilled water aside, and pour the
remaining salt concentrate into a dish. Crystals will form in about a
day, which are then collected. Dissolve the crystals in the distilled
water you collected. Filter the solution into a dish and allow it to
crystallize. Collect and gently dry the crystals. This is now purified
salt to be used in preparing the gold and silver metals. For the White
Work, silver metal is dissolved in Aqua Fortis or nitric acid. Filter
the solution through glass wool and dilute it with about ten times as
much water. Now pour the solution into a clean dish made of copper. Some
of the copper will dissolve and fine crystals of silver metal will form
on the bottom of the dish. Wash this fine silver powder several times
with rainwater, then dry it.

Grind together one part of the dried silver powder with six parts of
mercury which has been purified with vinegar and salt.

Press the resulting amalgam through a leather chamois to squeeze out the
excess mercury. Take the ball of amalgam remaining in the chamois and
grind it together with the previously purified salt. Add the salt in
small amounts and continue grinding until you cannot see the metallic
amalgam in

the powder. Place this powder into a distillation train and distill out
the mercury. The residue remaining in the distillation flask is rinsed
several times to dissolve and remove the salt. A very fine "silver calx"
will remain. Repeat the process of amalgamation with mercury, grinding
with purified salt, distillation of the mercury, and washing the silver
calx, two more times. The resulting fine silver calx will be suitable
for seeding into the animated mercury and preparing the White Stone for
white work (for transmuting mercury into Silver) The ancient artists
thought of this process as a type of calcination of the precious metals,
wherein they are reduced to a fine ash like consistency, and hence the
name "calx" of the metal.

The calcination of gold, for the Red Work (for transmuting mercury into
Gold), follows a similar path, and we shall discuss several methods
later in these posts. Now that we have prepared the metal calx and the
Animated Mercury, we are ready to proceed with the next phase of the
work. This part of the work consists of planting our precious metal
"seed" into the Sophic Mercury. Take one part of silver calx (for the
White Work) or one part of gold calx (for the Red Work) and grind it
together with two parts of the Sophic Mercury for about ten hours. The
resulting amalgam is then washed with rainwater until no more blackness
comes out in the water and the amalgam appears clean and bright. Place
the amalgam into a dish and cover it with a paper to keep dust out. The
amalgam will become dry and firm up enough so that it can be shaped. Cut
pieces of the amalgam off and form them into small balls about the size
of a pea. Set the balls into a dish and let dry gently in the sun. Place
the dried amalgam balls into a heavy walled digestion flask with a
ground glass stopper. The flask should be no more than a third full.
Cover the flask with a piece of paper to keep dust out, then place it
into a sandbath at a gentle heat of about 50 deg C for a day. When you
perceive that all of the moisture has gone out, seal the flask tightly
with the ground glass stopper. Continue the digestion at a gentle heat.
After about a week, the balls of amalgam will come together as a mass
which begins to swell and puff up. Gradually raise the temperature and
continue digesting the flask.

The matter will become very dark but soon will begin to look lighter and
finally take on a reddish hue. Increase the heat still higher and the
red will become more pronounced after about three months. After six
months of continuous digestion, the matter will be of a uniform red
color. This is the "Philosopher's Gold" and represents "the true radical
and central calcination of gold". These are "the ashes of the
philosophers, wherein the Royal Diadem is hidden" and is "the nearest
matter of the Stone, out of which the transmutation cam be made".

This "Sophic Gold" provides the foundation for confecting the Red Stone
of the Philosophers, but first we must augment or multiply its virtue
and quantity. Place 3 parts of the Sophic Gold into a clean digestion
flask as above and heat it until you can barely stand to touch it for
very long. Using a heated glass funnel, you must add 1 part of preheated
Sophic mercury in small portions. Add about the quantity of a pea each
time and allow about half an hour to pass before the next addition. Each
time the moisture should be allowed to vapor away. When the full 1 part
of Sophic Mercury has been added and all of the moisture has
disappeared, seal the flask with the ground glass stopper. Continue the
digestion in a sandbath for four weeks, gradually increasing the heat
during this time. At no point should the temperature rise high enough to
sublime or distill the mercury within the flask. After four weeks of
digestion, the added mercury will become fixed by the Sophic Gold.
Increase the heat until the flask is almost glowing red hot and the
matter will fuse without fuming. Allow the flask to cool slowly, then
break it free of the digestion flask. You can repeat this process of
multiplication as many times as you like and thus have a constant supply
of Sophic Gold. Now take 1 part of the Sophic Gold reduced to powder and
place it into a clean digestion flask. Add two parts of Sophic Mercury
all at once, then gently warm the flask to exhale all of the moisture.
Seal the flask and continue the digestion until the powder and mercury
form a fluid amalgam. Pour the amalgam into a clean glass mortar and
begin gently grinding it with rainwater until no more blackness enters
the water. When the wash water comes off clear, pour the amalgam into a
dish and let it dry in the sun. Place the dried amalgam into a clean
digestion flask and gently heat to remove all moisture before sealing.
The flask is digested in a sand bath at about 40 deg C and left
undisturbed. The matter will ferment, swell and bubble, then turn black
like pitch. This is called "The Regimen of Saturn". Keep up this gentle
digestion for 40 or 50 days and the mercury will begin to circulate.
Within several months, the matter will become lighter, and finally a
pure white powder will form. This is the "White Sulfur of the
Philosophers". The final phase of this process is the preparation of the
White and Red Stones from this White Sulfur. For the White Stone we use
pure silver metal and for the Red Stone we use Pure Gold. In each case
the method is the same, so we will only describe here the preparation of
the Red Stone. Place the White Sulfur into a digestion flask and add
small portions of Sophic Mercury until the matter is a soft dark mass.
Warm the flask to exhale all moisture, then seal it tightly. Digest with
a gentle heat in a sandbath for 30 days and the darkness will begin to
lighten. Continue the digestion for another 30 days and the matter will
take on a greenish hue, then a blue green, similar to a

peacock's tail, which is what this phase of the work is called. As the
digestion continues, the matter will become increasingly yellow, then
reddish. At last, the entire mass will become a beautiful red powder
which is called the "Red Sulfur of the Philosophers". Take 1 part of
this Red Sulfur and encase it in a shell of beeswax. Now melt 2 or 3
parts of pure gold in a crucible and cast the Red Sulfur wax ball into
it. Cover the crucible and let remain molten for half an hour. Once
cool, break open the crucible and you will find a glassy material which
you must reduce into powder.

Place 1 part of this powder into a digestion flask and add 2 parts of
the Sophic Mercury. Exhale the moisture out, then seal the flask. Digest
the flask with a gentle heat as before. The matter will become dark at
first but will turn red much quicker than the first time. Repeat the
digestion with fresh Sophic Mercury several times. The matter will turn
red sooner each time. At the end of this process, you will have "The Red
Stone of the Philosophers", "The Medicine of Metals", which can
transmute impure metals into gold.

The process of transmutation of metals into gold is called Projection.
Making a judgment of how much metal your stone will transmute requires a
little experimentation. Take about 4 parts of pure gold and melt it in a
clean crucible. Cast in 1 part of your Red Stone wrapped in beeswax and
keep the matter in flux for half an hour. When cool, break out the
resulting red glassy mass from the crucible and powder it. Now heat 100
parts common mercury in a crucible and cast in 1 part of the Red Stone
wrapped in beeswax. Keep the matter in flux for half an hour, then cast
it out into an ingot mold. If the metal is still brittle, you must
re-melt it with more mercury. If all of the metal did not change into
gold, you must add more of the Stone. After a few trials, you will be
able to judge the proportions in future transmutations. In order to
multiply the Stone in quantity and virtue, melt 1 part of it with 2
parts pure gold. Powder the resulting glassy mass and place it into a
digestion flask. Add Sophic mercury until it becomes a soft mass, then
seal the flask. Digest at a gentle heat and it will become fixed into
the Red Stone in a short time.
